.TH CGPSCLT "1" "April 2008" "Uppsala Biomedical Centre (BMC)" "User Commands"
.\" Format as -*- sh -*-
.\"
.\"     Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Anders Lövgren and the Computing Department,
.\"     Uppsala Biomedical Centre, Uppsala University.
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"     Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
cgpsclt \- client for sending predictions to the cgpsd daemon

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cgpsclt \fR[\fIoptions\fR...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B cgpsclt
client is used for sending predictions to 
.B cgpds
and retreiving the result. The client can be used both as a standalone application, or as a filter in a pipeline (where it reads the prediction data from stdin). It supports both TCP and UNIX socket communication. The predictions is usually done using Umetrics Simca\-QP library on the server side.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sock\fR[=\fIpath\fR]:
Connect to UNIX socket [/var/run/cgpsd.sock]
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-host\fR=\fIaddr\fR:
Connect to host (IP or hostname)
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-port\fR=\fInum\fR:
Connect on port [9401]
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-data\fR=\fIpath\fR:
Raw data input file (default=stdin)
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fIpath\fR:
Write result to output file (default=stdout)
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-result\fR=\fIstr\fR:
Colon separated list of results to show (see \fB\-h\fR result)
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-format\fR=\fIstr\fR:
Set ouput format (either plain or xml)
.TP
\fB\-4\fR, \fB\-\-ipv4:
Connect using the IPv4 protocol.
.TP
\fB\-6\fR, \fB\-\-ipv6:
Connect using the IPv6 protocol.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR:
Enable debug output (allowed multiple times)
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR:
Be more verbose in output
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR:
This help
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR:
Print version info to stdout

.SH NOTES
This application is part of the chemgps-sqp2 package developed for the ChemGPS project.

.SH BUGS
Probably, if you find one, send them to anders.lovgren@bmc.uu.se

.SH AUTHOR
Anders Lövgren <anders.lovgren@bmc.uu.se>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2007-2018 Anders Lövgren and BMC-IT, Uppsala University.
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Anders Lövgren, Nowise Systems

.SH LICENSE
The 
.B cgpsclt
application is released under the GNU General Public License.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cgpsd (8),
.BR cgpsstd (1)
.BR libchemgps (3),
