.TH CGPSD "8" "April 2008" "Uppsala Biomedical Centre (BMC)" "Linux System Administration"
.\" Format as -*- sh -*-
.\"
.\"     Copyright (c) 2007-2018 Anders Lövgren and BMC-IT, Uppsala University.
.\"     Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Anders Lövgren, Nowise Systems
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"     Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
cgpsd \- prediction daemon

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cgpsd
\fI-f proj \fR[\fIoptions\fR...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B cgpsd 
daemon loads the project at startup and then enter the service mode where it accepts prediction request from the 
.B cgpsclt
application or any other client that follows the CGPSP protocol. The daemon listens for client request on one or more server sockets (see the \-u and \-t option).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-proj\fR=\fIpath\fR:
Load project file
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-unix\fR[=\fIpath\fR]:
Listen on UNIX socket (socket path [/var/run/cgpsd.sock])
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-tcp\fR[=\fIaddr\fR]:
Listen on TCP socket (interface address [0.0.0.0])
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-port\fR=\fInum\fR:
Listen on port [9401]
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-backlog\fR=\fInum\fR:
Listen queue length [50]
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-logfile\fR=\fIpath\fR:
Use path as simca lib log
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-interactive\fR:
Don't detach from controlling terminal
.TP
\fB\-4\fR, \fB\-\-ipv4:
Listen on IPv4 protocol socket.
.TP
\fB\-6\fR, \fB\-\-ipv6:
Listen on IPv6 protocol socket.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR:
Enable debug output (allowed multiple times)
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR:
Be more verbose in output
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR:
This help
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR:
Print version info to stdout

.SH NOTES
This daemon is part of the chemgps-sqp2 package developed for the ChemGPS project.

.SH BUGS
Probably, if you find one, send them to anders.lovgren@bmc.uu.se

.SH AUTHOR
Anders Lövgren <anders.lovgren@bmc.uu.se>
Anders Lövgren <andlov@nowise.se>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2007-2018 Anders Lövgren and BMC-IT, Uppsala University.
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Anders Lövgren, Nowise Systems

.SH LICENSE
The 
.B cgpsd
daemon is released under the GNU General Public License.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cgpsclt (1),
.BR cgpsstd (1)
.BR libchemgps (3),
