.TH CGPSSTD "1" "April 2008" "Uppsala Biomedical Centre (BMC)" "User Commands"
.\" Format as -*- sh -*-
.\"
.\"     Copyright (c) 2007-2018 Anders Lövgren and BMC-IT, Uppsala University.
.\"     Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Anders Lövgren, Nowise Systems
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"     Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
cgpsstd \- standalone prediction application.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cgpsstd
\fI-p proj -r data \fR[\fIoptions\fR...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B cgpsstd 
makes prediction local without sending predictions to the 
.B cgpsd 
server daemon. It acts as a wrapper for the libchemgps library that is used for making the predictions. Even though working, it should be more considered as a feature test for libchemgps than a real solution.
.PP
If you are setting up a real environment for making predictions using libchemgps (and Umetrics SIMCA-QP library), then use the
.B cgpsd
daemon and the
.B cgpsclt
client to implement a high-performance client/server solution.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-proj\fR=\fIpath\fR:
Load project file
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-data\fR=\fIpath\fR:
Raw data input file (default=stdin)
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fIpath\fR:
Write result to output file (default=stdout)
.HP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-logfile\fR=\fIpath\fR: Use path as simca lib log
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-result\fR=\fIstr\fR:
Colon separated list of results to show (see \fB\-h\fR result)
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-numobs\fR=\fInum\fR:
Number of observations in input data (see \fB\-i\fR option) (default=1)
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-syslog\fR:
Use syslog(3) for application logging
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-format\fR=\fIstr\fR:
Set ouput format (either plain or xml)
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-batch\fR:
Enable batch job mode (suppress some messages)
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR:
Enable debug output (allowed multiple times)
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR:
Be more verbose in output
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR:
This help
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR:
Print version info to stdout

.SH NOTES
This application is part of the chemgps-sqp2 package developed for the ChemGPS project.

.SH BUGS
Probably, if you find one, send them to anders.lovgren@bmc.uu.se

.SH AUTHOR
Anders Lövgren <anders.lovgren@bmc.uu.se>
Anders Lövgren <andlov@nowise.se>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2007-2018 Anders Lövgren and BMC-IT, Uppsala University.
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Anders Lövgren, Nowise Systems

.SH LICENSE
The 
.B cgpsstd
application is released under the GNU General Public License.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cgpsd (8),
.BR cgpsclt (1)
.BR libchemgps (3),
